Al jaaz senior political analyst M
Bashar who's with us here in Doha so we
had Daniel Levy the president of the US
Middle East project he's also a former
Israeli negotiator he was saying that
this ruling is a landmark legal case it
it it is a uh marks a specific moment in
the way that Israel is regarded in legal
terms uh by the rest of the world in
Practical terms what does this ruling
actually achieve if it's not enforcable
although it is binding
um you know the court the icj is the
world court it's not the world
government no matter what the ruling is
it wasn't going to enforce it even if
the ruling is
biding this court the 15 judges don't
have a police force don't have an army
don't have military they don't have
money they don't have anything with
which to enforce any decision right it
is the United Nations me members notably
security members National United Nations
security Council Members that can
enforce any such so it doesn't matter
what this court comes out with in the
end of the day they will not reinforce
it right I mean that's very simple in
fact this court in 2004 also made an
opinion about the aparted wall in the
West Bank and it judged it to be illegal
and should be
dismantled 20 years ago
the wall is still there it has not been
dismantled because Israel and the United
States would not dismantle it right so
the court did Issue an opinion on the
wall 20 years ago and the wall is still
standing and Israel is still an
occupying power in the West Bank right
as it is in Gaza so I think what's
important in this ruling is that it is a
huge
success a victory for South Africa even
though it does not have immediate wins
for the people in Gaza
in terms of the moving or you mentioned
the UN Security Council there is there a
an argument that suggests that given the
circumstance that you talked about does
this give some more weight to cases or
or um applications that are made to the
UN Security Council that might actually
sway the decisions of those that might
actually as Patty was just explaining
put the US in a very difficult position
almost right into a corner when it comes
to actually using its veto in favor of
Israel as has done in the past I think
in many ways uh Rob the idea today that
these 15 judges from 15 different
countries the world's highest court have
decided based on evidence and based on
United Nations agencies that they will
put Israel on trial for genocide moving
forward that moral weight of this court
of that judgment based on evidence of
the past 100 plus days will have
huge effect on the
psychology and the moral standing of
those countries who have been supporting
Israel unconditionally the past 3 four
months how they react AC you know based
on that that depends on how expedient
they are how narrow-minded they are or
how much they feel themselves to
be men and women of History right that
they are on the right side of History
because here as you said and as Pat
stated that some of the ruling some of
it right in effect does Echo some of
what the unit some of the United States
has been warning about you need to stop
the indiscriminate bombing you need to
you need to uh leasen the civilian
casualties and so on so forth but that's
not where the importance of this Court's
ruling is the importance of this ring uh
this Court ruling lies in the fact that
they suspect there's a plausible
evidence that Israel is carrying
genocide against a people so it's not
just about war crimes and it's not just
about avoiding civilian casualties they
think there's a plausible proof
plausible
evidence plausible evid that Israel is
carrying genocide against the
Palestinian people in Gaza so that must
then provoke or invoke a certain move on
the part of those who support Israel and
those who do not support Israel because
pressure is going to start building up
by the Western public opinion on Western
States at the United Nations security
Council to call for a ceasefire and I
think different countries from the
global South are also going to start
putting pressure on their Northern
Partners right to start putting more
pressure on Israel because the the the
the the icj is not just making rulings
in the abstract I mean as I said it's a
moral legal blow but in effect they're
they're telling Israel we want to hear
back from you in a month time it's like
Israel is on probation already it's like
Israel is on parole already that you
need to come back and tell us and show
us how you are respecting the things we
are telling you so Israel is a suspect
Israel is on trial and not just on trial
for this and that insignificant thing
it's on trial for genocide Mar thank you
very much indeed we're going to be
talking to you again in about half an
hour's time but for now thank you very
much indeed Maran
Bashar